README.md, before:

# IterativeUnet
SegFormer is a test project to test the possibilities of transformer segmentation methods.
It is mainly based on the tutorial from ´https://github.com/NielsRogge/Transformers-Tutorials/blob/master/SegFormer/Fine_tune_SegFormer_on_custom_dataset.ipynb´.

## Questions
* How to use them?
* Are they better than CNN-UNets

# Installation
##  Without Docker
Please note that you should use the anaconda environment requirements.txt for training.

## With Docker and VS Code
Important steps, some are already done, e.g. tensorflow[and-cuda]==2.17.0
* Install WSL 2 and VS Code
* Install Cuda-Driver ???
* Use tensorflow[and-cuda]==2.17.0 instead of tensorflow or tensorflow-gpu
* General Infos [Cuda and Docker ](https://docs.nvidia.com/ai-enterprise/deployment/vmware/latest/docker.html)
* Install [cuda-container-toolkit](https://docs.nvidia.com/datacenter/cloud-native/container-toolkit/latest/install-guide.html#installing-the-nvidia-container-toolkit)
* Set Paths in `~/.bashrc` 
  `export CUDA_PATH=$CUDA_PATH:/usr/local/cuda/`
  `export PATH=$PATH:$CUDA_PATH`
  `export PATH=$PATH:/usr/local/cuda/bin`
  `LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$LD_LIBRARY_PATH:/usr/local/cuda/lib64:/usr/local/cuda/lib`
  `LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$LD_LIBRARY_PATH:/usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu`
* Install [cuda-driver]()
* Install [Cudnn-cuda-12](https://developer.nvidia.com/cudnn-downloads?target_os=Linux&target_arch=x86_64&Distribution=Ubuntu&target_version=22.04&target_type=deb_local) or cudnn-cuda-11 depending on coda version
  Maybe create link from to `/usr/local/cuda`
  Set path in `~/.bashrc` :  `LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$LD_LIBRARY_PATH:/usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu`
* Start Docker `sudo service docker start`
* Create Docker container from Dockerfile `docker buildx build -t segformer_image .`
* Run Docker container once `docker run --gpus all --name segFormer -p 2224:24  -it -v /mnt/c/Users/fmo/sourcePrivate/SegFormer:/app segformer_image tail -f /dev/null` (not debugging)
* Debug Docker container ``*
* Inside the file [/etc/nvidia-container-runtime/config.toml change no-cgroups from true to false](https://github.com/microsoft/WSL/issues/9962#issuecomment-2066459177)
  
### Definitions to use Docker in VS Code
Important files are 
* `Dockerfile`
* `.vscode/launch.json` -> Launch tasks that can be run directly with `Play`-Button 
* `.vscode/tasks.json` -> Definition of single tasks, e.g., build, run (command, file, shell)
* `.devcontainer/devcontainer.json` (this might be not used or wrong)

# Run and Debug with VS Code
Note: It is important to use `buildx` not `build`.

## Start Docker Container and attach VS Code to running container.
* Build manually docker container in terminal: `docker buildx build -t segformer_image .`
* Start Container in the Container-Field.
* Right-Click on running container and Attach VS Code to running container.
* Debug and run scripts with launch-json "Python: Run current File inside Docker".

## Run it in VS Code manually
* Build manually docker container in terminal: `docker buildx build -t segformer_image .`
* Comment "Wait for client from debugpy"
* Run it manually in terminal: `docker run --gpus all -v /mnt/c/Users/fmo/sourcePrivate/SegFormer:/app segformer_image`

## Debug it with VS Code

* Build manually docker container in terminal: `docker buildx build -t segformer_image .`
* Uncomment "Wait for client from debugpy"
* Start "Terminal -> Run Task..." the task "docker-run: prebuild"
* In "Run and Debug" run "Docker: Python - Attach Debug"
* debug it ...*

Commit message:

create possibility to run just inference on a single folder

README.md, after:

# SegFormer for Eye Segmentation
SegFormer is a test project to test the possibilities of vision transformer segmentation methods.
It is mainly based on the tutorial from `https://github.com/NielsRogge/Transformers-Tutorials/blob/master/SegFormer/Fine_tune_SegFormer_on_custom_dataset.ipynb`.
The training is based on [lora transformer fine tuning](https://huggingface.co/docs/peft/main/conceptual_guides/lora).

## Questions
* How to use them?
* Are they better than CNN-UNets

## Implemented Tools
* [segFormer.py](segFormer.py) train neural network based on [config settings](config.py)
* To test the network on images in a test folder: [inference.py](inference.py)

# Installation
##  Without Docker
Please note that you should use the anaconda environment requirements.txt for training.

## With Docker and VS Code
Important steps, some are already done, e.g. tensorflow[and-cuda]==2.17.0
* Install WSL 2 and VS Code
* Install Cuda-Driver ???
* Use tensorflow[and-cuda]==2.17.0 instead of tensorflow or tensorflow-gpu
* General Infos [Cuda and Docker ](https://docs.nvidia.com/ai-enterprise/deployment/vmware/latest/docker.html)
* Install [cuda-container-toolkit](https://docs.nvidia.com/datacenter/cloud-native/container-toolkit/latest/install-guide.html#installing-the-nvidia-container-toolkit)
* Set Paths in `~/.bashrc` 
  `export CUDA_PATH=$CUDA_PATH:/usr/local/cuda/`
  `export PATH=$PATH:$CUDA_PATH`
  `export PATH=$PATH:/usr/local/cuda/bin`
  `LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$LD_LIBRARY_PATH:/usr/local/cuda/lib64:/usr/local/cuda/lib`
  `LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$LD_LIBRARY_PATH:/usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu`
* Install [cuda-driver]()
* Install [Cudnn-cuda-12](https://developer.nvidia.com/cudnn-downloads?target_os=Linux&target_arch=x86_64&Distribution=Ubuntu&target_version=22.04&target_type=deb_local) or cudnn-cuda-11 depending on coda version
  Maybe create link from to `/usr/local/cuda`
  Set path in `~/.bashrc` :  `LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$LD_LIBRARY_PATH:/usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu`
* Start Docker `sudo service docker start`
* Create Docker container from Dockerfile `docker buildx build -t segformer_image .`
* Run Docker container once `docker run --gpus all --name segFormer -p 2224:24  -it -v /mnt/c/Users/fmo/sourcePrivate/SegFormer:/app segformer_image tail -f /dev/null` (not debugging)
* Debug Docker container ``*
* Inside the file [/etc/nvidia-container-runtime/config.toml change no-cgroups from true to false](https://github.com/microsoft/WSL/issues/9962#issuecomment-2066459177)
  
### Definitions to use Docker in VS Code
Important files are 
* `Dockerfile`
* `.vscode/launch.json` -> Launch tasks that can be run directly with `Play`-Button 
* `.vscode/tasks.json` -> Definition of single tasks, e.g., build, run (command, file, shell)
* `.devcontainer/devcontainer.json` (this might be not used or wrong)

# Run and Debug with VS Code
Note: It is important to use `buildx` not `build`.

## Start Docker Container and attach VS Code to running container.
* Build manually docker container in terminal: `docker buildx build -t segformer_image .`
* Start Container in the Container-Field.
* Right-Click on running container and Attach VS Code to running container.
* Debug and run scripts with launch-json "Python: Run current File inside Docker".

## Run it in VS Code manually
* Build manually docker container in terminal: `docker buildx build -t segformer_image .`
* Comment "Wait for client from debugpy"
* Run it manually in terminal: `docker run --gpus all -v /mnt/c/Users/fmo/sourcePrivate/SegFormer:/app segformer_image`

## Debug it with VS Code

* Build manually docker container in terminal: `docker buildx build -t segformer_image .`
* Uncomment "Wait for client from debugpy"
* Start "Terminal -> Run Task..." the task "docker-run: prebuild"
* In "Run and Debug" run "Docker: Python - Attach Debug"
* debug it ...*
